Before we get back to
subclassing the tkintern listbox,
there's another way of specifying parameters,
that we need to look at
and that's the **kwargs or kw args, and in fact
this is the one that we need to use in our subclass.
Now, it works in the same way as packing a variable number
of elements of arguments into a tuple,
but this time we need to pack a variable number
of named arguments, or keyword arguments,
hence kw args or kwargs.
Now, we've used functions, that have keyword arguments
before and the one we've used most is the print function.
So, I'm gonna clear out all this code
in our **kwargs file and just go back
to a simple print of hello world.
Now, if we Control click on the print function
or command, if you're on a Mac,
you can see there that it specifies
three named, or keyword parameters.
Now this looks slightly different if you're using Python 2,
and the future version of print, so if that's the case,
just follow me in the video, because everything works
the same, it's just your version of print
that's a little bit different.
So we've used this end parameter in the past
to suppress new lines, when we want several things
to print on the same line.
We've also used the file parameter as well.
Over here we've got it currently set to file equals none.
It's again line number 476.
We use that when we write text data to a file on disc.
So, these are keyword arguments
and we wrote our own methods to use them, if you recall
in the object oriented programming section of the course.
Up until now, we've dealt with keyword arguments,
that have default values,
so if we don't provide a sep argument, for example,
it defaults to a space
and similarly, the end argument, you can see here,
it defaults to a new line character
and the file argument, you can see here, defaults to none.
But what happens if we don't wanna provide defaults though?
Now, that might seem like a daft question.
If these arguments are used, then surely they must have
some value, even if that value is none.
Well, the thing is we may not know what those defaults are
and perhaps more importantly,
we often don't want to care what they are.
So let's actually see an example to understand
why we don't necessarily want to specify default values.
So to do that, I'm going to just close the builtins.py,
go back to our **dorarg
and I'm going to use an exercise from a previous video,
one that prints the words backwards.
So I'm going to just type it in quickly,
so def print_backwards
and **args,
for word in args,
like so, ::-1 in square brackets, :,
then we're gonna do print word
and in square brackets again,
::-1
comma end=
and in double quotes, sorry, in single quotes,
a space up to the end=, and that's it for our method
and in terms of calling it,
let's just write print_backwards,
I'm gonna pass the parameters
hello
planet
earth,
take
me
to
your
leader.
Alright, so this is just basically a modified version
of the print function, so I think,
well, actually we'll just run this first
to make sure that it in fact does work
and you can see that we've got it working quite nicely.
Hello planet earth, take me to your leader,
you can see that's all showing backwards,
which is what we tried to do.
So what we've done here is basically
a modified version of the print function.
So that said, I think it would be nice
if it behaved the same as the real print function.
For example, we should print it to a file,
if that's what the user wants to do with it.
So that's actually easy, we just add a named parameter,
then pass that on to the builtin function.
So to do that, we come up here after the args.
We've defined the *args, we'll put file=None,
then for the print line, after the end=,
two single quotes and a space, we put file=file.
So firstly, we can try to run an as is
to make sure it still works.
No change to functionality there,
but now that we've introduced file,
we can actually print to a file if we want to.
So to do that, we can then change the code here
and put with open backwards.txt
and mode w in single quotes as backwards:,
and then on the end of the line there
we can put comma file=backwards.
So now if we do that, and we need to indent that
and if we run that, we should find
backwards.txt gets created.
You can see, it appeared up here
and if we just double-click that, we're now seeing
hello planet earth take me to your leader showing.
Alright, so that's working well.
I had an extra space there, by the way,
I'll get rid of that in case you were wondering
why there was an extra space there.
That was easy, but the print function
only defines three keyword parameters,
so we'd only have to code it
for three in our function definition.
In fact, we'd only have to code it for two,
because we force the end to be a space,
so that all the words printed are printed on the same line,
so that's our definition there, you can see end calling,
define the end too up into space.
Now in the case of the listbox class, for example,
there are a lot of named arguments,
that we can provide when creating a new listbox,
things like background, font, the highlight colour,
and the highlight thickness.
There are about 22 different parameters,
that we'd actually have to match in our nip method,
if we wanna provide all the same options.
Now that's bad enough, but what if say,
the next version of the listbox has a new option?
Our class would know nothing about it,
so users of our subclass then wouldn't be able
to take advantage of these latest features.
Now fortunately, there's an easier way
and this is where the **kw args or kwargs actually comes in.
Now we've seen that the asterix can be used
to unpack a tuple or a list,
but the double asterix operator, **,
unpacks a dictionary in the same way.
Now a dictionary is used because keyword arguments
are specified as a keyword and a value
and that's exactly what you have in the dictionary,
a key and a value.
So what all this means is that we can scoop up
all the keyword arguments and pass the whole lot
on to the print function.
So let's have a go at doing that.
We're gonna come back here and remove the file=None,
and instead what we're gonna do is put **kwargs or kw args,
like so, and then we come down here
and after the end, instead of file=file,
we replace that to, or with rather,
**kwargs or kw args again,
and just to be sure,
we'll just delete the backwards.txt file
to confirm it is being created with this new code.
So if you run this, we can see that it still worked
and backwards.txt got created, and in fact
there's no space there like there was before,
so it confirmation that has worked nicely.
So here what we've done is on line 1,
is we've defined our function to accept **kwargs
and whatever appears in there
is just passed onto the print function
and you can see that happening on line 3.
So that is pretty cool.
The calling code is free to add as many
keyword arguments as print will accept
and we don't have to worry about what they are,
nor do we need to worry what their default values are.
Now once again, we could call a parameter anything,
but the convention here is to use
kw args or kwargs as the name.
Now let's check what's in kwargs,
by printing it out before you do any processing.
So we can add a line two to do that
then we'll just do a print kwargs
and if we run this, you can see there
that kwarg is just a dictionary,
it's got an entry with the key file
and the value is our file object.
We can see the name backwards, like txt there
and mode equals w in the printed representation
of the file down here in the Run window.
Now if the print function changes in the future,
to have additional keyword arguments
our code will still work fine.
The user can specify them
when calling our print_backwards function,
and we just pass them on to the builtin print.
That means that we can handle functions in classes,
that take keyword arguments,
that we don't have to know or care about
and that obviously makes life a lot easier.
However with that said, there's a slight problem
with this code and it's easy to fix
and that's gonna be your next challenge.
But I'll end the video here.
In the next video, we'll have a look
and see what the problem is first
and then we'll get you to look at it,
by way of a challenge to solve that problem.
So I'll see you in the next video.